The Weekly Thing, issue 140-special. Matching Donations to Second Harvest!. Published March 23, twenty twenty. By Jamie Thingelstad.

I’m Jamie Thingelstad, and this is a Special Thing! This is a never-before-done middle-of-the-week short email for Weekly Thing subscribers to encourage everyone to participate in the Second Harvest fundraising campaign!

Last Saturday I announced that I was doing a first-ever fundraising campaign in Weekly Thing #140, matching up to 10,000 dollars in contributions to Second Harvest! As Covid-19 has done so much damage to our economy, it is very clear that there are going to be a lot of people that will need help. If you are in a position to offer that help, I want to match it with you!

We have already had a big impact!

So far we've raised 2,905 dollars for Second Harvest! With the match, that is already 5,810 dollars! It gets better! Right now Blue Cross Blue Shield of Minnesota is also matching so we have already brought in 11,620 dollars!

That means we have already provided 34,860 meals for people in need!

But, we can do much more. We can provide another 85,140 meals for people in need if we hit the 10,000 dollars goal and maximize the match!

Make a donation to Second Harvest now!

Let's get another 7,095 dollars! Okay? I know these are difficult times and there is a lot of uncertainty, but imagine how much more uncertainty there is if you aren't sure where your meals are coming from.

Make a donation now, and then forward your donation receipt to me via email at jamie@thingelstad.com. I will add up all the donations and match them up to 10,000 dollars! Let's double, actually quadruple, the good we can all make together and help get food to people that need it!

Another link to donate to Second Harvest now!

As a treat for all of you great folks, here is a picture of our new family dog. His name is Lucky. We just got him this weekend. He is also making a donation to Second Harvest for the match!

Thank you for donating to Second Harvest!

Jamie

That brings us to the end of the Weekly Thing, issue 140-special. Thanks for listening, and I'll see you next time.
