The Weekly Thing, issue 197. Cloudflare, Bunches, Float. Published October 2, twenty twenty one. By Jamie Thingelstad. In this issue: Cloudflare disruption, AWS Step Functions, Masked Email, most important iPhone, absence of Scrum, internet's original sin.

Another week with some technical difficulties getting in the way of my publishing schedule. Shortcuts is definitely buggy in iOS 15 and the interoperability with some apps has issues. I’m going to have to find some workarounds for a little bit. Maybe simplifying to reduce some of these dependencies.

Sometimes you get an opportunity to really appreciate how lucky you are in life, and this week I got one of those moments when I was selected as one of TwinCitiesCIO's twenty twenty one CIO of the Year recipients. So many kind words from friends and colleagues.

And now, let's get to the links from the week…

Now, the Featured section.

Link one. "Cloudflare’s Disruption – Stratechery by Ben Thompson"

Ben Thompson sharing some brilliant observations on the strategy that Cloudflare is pursuing in the cloud market. Tons of Clay Christensen references here from both Thompson and Matthew Prince of Cloudflare.

Quote.
In other words, I would be Cloudflare: I would charge marginal rates for my actual marginal costs (storage, and some as-yet-undetermined-but-promised-to-be-lower-than-S3 rate for operations), and give away my zero marginal cost product for free. S3’s margin is R2’s opportunity.
End quote.

I've got a lot of respect for Cloudflare. They have built incredible, foundation layer technology that is making the web better every day. Honestly I've always considered them to play at the network layer up, as an accelerator and optimizer. As a potential full-cloud provider, I would watch them closely.

This will be very interesting to watch over the coming years.

Link two. "Pickup truck runs over 6 cyclists in Waller County, 4 people hospitalized"

In two thousand one I flew to Fredericksburg, Texas with my bike to take part in Hell Week Texas, 8 days riding 100-mile century ride each day. Texas Hill Country has some immense climbs, so it is great for training. The roads are also very nicely paved so it’s great riding.

On one day as we were riding in a small group a pickup truck drove by our group going really fast and super close to us. Instead of pulling over and giving us a nice gap on our bikes, the driver intentionally had actually swerved over to the shoulder in an attempt to scare us (or something) by coming really close to us. I have no idea why people feel a need to do this stuff to cyclists, but it happens.

Our group was shocked by how close the truck was but there wasn't much of anything for us to do. Yelling or finger gestures are not a terribly smart move for a cyclist in this situation.

As we rode along a few more miles we came upon a group of cyclists stopped. That same truck had continued to "buzz" cyclists but they got this one wrong and had hit one of the cyclists in another group. A helicopter was called and the rider was going to be airlifted to a hospital. The driver had left the scene and a group of riders was waiting for the police to come.

I have no idea why some drivers feel a need to bug cyclists, but this news article from Houston hit a nerve with me given this previous incident. How can it be that the driver of the truck hasn't been charged with his lawyer claiming he had no criminal intent. He was taunting cyclists and trying to annoy them. I don't think he intended to run over six people, but he did.

That's the end of Featured.

Now, the Currently section.

Listening: I've been digging Sam Harris stuff lately and I have always been a fan of Ricky Gervais, so it was kind of a no brainer for me to buy Absolutely Mental where Harris and Gervais talk through a wide variety of topics with humor and insight.

Installing: Now that iOS 15 supports Safari Extensions we are seeing some fun things coming out. I’m not a fan of Google Amp pages, and Amplosion is a handy one-time purchase to make the web AMP-free!

That's the end of Currently.

Now, the Notable section.

Link one. "AWS Step Functions Supports 200 AWS Services To Enable Easier Workflow Automation | AWS News Blog"

This is a pretty massive expansion in capability for Step Functions.

Quote.
Today AWS Step Functions expands the number of supported AWS services from 17 to over 200 and AWS API Actions from 46 to over 9,000 with its new capability AWS SDK Service Integrations.
End quote.

You can now create much more sophisticated functions in Lambda that you can then build on top of for more server-less solutions.

Link two. "My Dad | Humidity and Hope"

I follow Hugh Hollowell's newsletter. He writes from a very personal place. This writeup about losing his Dad a year ago to COVID is touching.

Link three. "fractional.art"

Service to allow people to buy NFT's in groups, or buy just parts of an NFT. This doesn't look to be a DAO like Flamingo, but has very similar characteristics. Via Nifty Tables.

Link four. "I Just Don’t Want to Be Busy Anymore by Elena Salaks | Forge"

There have been a couple of times in my career that I truly entered a "burnout" phase. Once you start to figure out some signs that you can detect, I think you can manage and make less pronounced changes to modulate your energy. The most important take away from this article is having the dialog with your manager and being open about it. I suspect that many people that experience these burnout feelings are important members of a team, and it is in the best interests of the team to help people not get burnt out.

Link five. "Masked Email from Fastmail and 1Password protects your identity online"

Masking your email address is a really powerful tool to protect your privacy online. It is common for services to generate a token or hash from your email address and use that to target and profile you. So, even though you of course use different passwords everywhere, you can easily be tracked and matched if you use the same email address. However, using different email addresses takes time. I've been doing this with Fastmail's previous routing support, but this new masked mail service works for sending too and gives you metrics on how frequently the email address is used.

Now, connecting it to 1Password is a stroke of genius. When registering a new account using a masked email address you often are copy/pasting both an email address and generated password. Now it is super easy to do both right in the browser, and save the credentials for safe keeping in 1Password.

I've been a happy customer (family accounts!) of both Fastmail and 1Password for years now. I highly recommend both of them.

Link six. "Bunches • Start Your Bunch"

Interesting service that lets you create a topical Twitter-like experience, but just for that topic. You can be in multiples. Sort of like IRC channels really. Even supports paid channels.

Link seven. "The Diamond"

Mesmerizing 16-minute video with people searching for diamonds atop an ancient volcano. Not really about the diamonds, but about the stories, and the people. The interview with the director is a good read too.

Link eight. "The Most Important iPhone Ever – Asymco"

I waited in line for that very first iPhone. It has been amazing to see this device revolutionize so much around us.

Quote.
What makes the iPhone and perhaps Apple special is that it seems to deliver things that nobody asks for but then everybody wants while eschewing overshooting a performance dimension that a few demand but most won’t use.
End quote.

Honestly we may never see another product as disruptive as this in our lifetime.

Link nine. "The Internet's Original Sin by Charlie Warzel - Galaxy Brain"

Great dive into the incredibly complex world of online advertising, and the impacts on our privacy and much more.

Quote.
But the more I started reporting on digital privacy issues, the more it became extremely clear that this huge, opaque online advertising ecosystem was a lucrative blackbox, powered by our personal data. It grew faster than anyone could regulate it, so it was barely regulated. It was (is) ripe with billions of dollars of fraud per year (52 billion dollars in twenty twenty). And because the system is so hard to understand, it’s ripe for bad actors to use it to pollute the internet with garbage ads. The online ad ecosystem is helping to fund most every publication — including those that spew hate or misinformation. The online ads game is at the center of Google and Facebook’s dominance, too. Most everything bad about the internet (and a lot of good things too) has at least a little bit to do with this ecosystem.
End quote.

Link ten. "'Float,' a film shot on iPhone - YouTube"

This is a beautiful and touching short film about a daughter and father. Notable that it is shot directly on an iPhone 13 Pro using the new cinematic capabilities. But honestly, its just a great 3 minutes. via Daring Fireball.

Link eleven. "How Big Tech Runs Tech Projects and the Curious Absence of Scrum - The Pragmatic Engineer"

It is certainly common for people to look at other companies and try to emulate what they do hoping to have the same successes. This article looks at team practices to deliver software, and there really is no correlation. This doesn't surprise me at all. The way that you choose to build software is not based solely on the size of your organization, it has a ton of other inputs, most of which are more important than size. The short answer here is that each company has to figure out how to best deliver software for their situation. Sorry, there are no shortcuts here.

"A township where one primitive forest waves above while another primitive forest rots below, — such a town is fitted to raise not only corn and potatoes, but poets and philosophers for the coming ages." — Henry David Thoreau, "Walking"

That's the end of Notable.

Now, the Journal section.

Thursday @ 8:41 PM

We sought out the Animales Burger trailer at Bauhaus Brewing Co tonight. Our first time trying their burgers and they were incredible! Wow!

Saturday @ 9:55 PM

This is how we wish every MN United home game ended! Wonderwall! love love

Saturday @ 8:06 PM

Great first half of Minnesota United v Houston Dynamo. MNUFC leading 2-0.

Saturday @ 8:01 PM

I love this view. No matter how many times I’ve seen it. love love

GO UNITED!

Saturday @ 3:16 PM

Ordered iPhone 13 Pro for Tammy and I. Both 512 GB. Sierra Blue for her, Silver for me. Trying out the iPhone 13 Pro Clear Case with MagSafe this time.

Saturday @ 12:15 PM

We made some more Wicky Thing Candles this morning.

Mazie’s job was cutting down wax for the melting pots. She had some fun with the wax while doing it.

Friday @ 10:23 PM

We went to the Edina Homecoming Parade after the kids got done with school today. It was fun to see a High School Marching Band.

That's the end of the Journal.

Now, the Reply All section.

Here are some replies from Weekly Thing #196 / iPhone 13, iOS 15, watchOS 8.

It turns out that David O'Hara (@davoh) is very familiar with the book I’m reading…

Quote.
That Nature/Walking volume is one I’ve been teaching for 20 years. Those texts are like palimpsests of everything Emerson and Thoreau ever read, and they’re also like thickets in which you can enter and, moments later, lose sight of the trail. I love them both.
End quote.

I love that. And Joe Waters (@joewaters) had additional suggestions for further reading…

Quote.
Forget NATURE, read Emerson’s ESSAYS FIRST SERIES. Self-Reliance, Compensation, Spiritual Laws are great. Then jump over to CONDUCT OF LIFE and read his essay Fate. Great one volume book on Emerson: MIND ON FIRE. Great bio written by a great man!
End quote.

That's the end of Reply All.

Now, the Briefly section.

Link one. "12 Things Smart Leaders Don’t Say | Leadership Freak"

Simple, direct. Good things to keep in mind.

Link two. "Simone Biles Chose Herself"

Good article with Simone Biles catching up with her since her decision to not compete in Tokyo. Our family was eager to watch her sweep the medals, and it was shocking when she decided to withdraw.

Link three. "Jade Denson to Lead MnTech Talent Initiatives » MnTech"

I've gotten to work with Jade Denson at MnTech and I am super excited about her leading up this effort!

Link four. "How Experts Overlooked Left-Wing Authoritarianism - The Atlantic"

Authoritarianism comes in all different flavors. That really should not be surprising at all. The authoritarian part comes before the flavor that that particular group or individual pursuits.

Link five. "A hamster has been trading cryptocurrencies in a cage rigged to automatically buy and sell tokens since June - and it's currently outperforming the S and P 500 | Markets Insider"

This is so great.

Link six. "Twitter accelerates again with Bitcoin tips, NFTs, recorded Spaces, creator fund and more | TechCrunch"

It is fun to see Twitter trying stuff, innovating, again.

Link seven. "iPadOS 15 Walkthrough: EVERYTHING You Need To Know! - YouTube"

Incredibly detailed and thorough walk-through of all the new stuff in iPadOS 15. If video is your preferred way of learning, I can guarantee you will find some new stuff in here.

Link eight. "An ultimate guide to memory palaces"

If you are looking for a method to remember a large number of things, memory palaces are a well known solution.

That's the end of Briefly.

Now, the Fortune section.

Here is your fortune…

You are a bundle of energy, always on the go.

Thank you for subscribing to the Weekly Thing!

That brings us to the end of the Weekly Thing, issue 197. Thanks for listening, and I'll see you next time.
