The Weekly Thing, issue 213. Ukraine. Published February 26, twenty twenty two. By Jamie Thingelstad. In this issue: Ukraine photos, Kyiv cathedrals, Russian invasion, dogsledding with Wintergreen, Ely, -4°F temperatures, snowmobiling around Tower.

This is a special Weekly Thing on Ukraine, there are no links this week… and there are a lot of photos!

Nine years ago I knew very little about Ukraine. In the time since, I've had the opportunity to work very closely with so many great technologists and professionals in Ukraine. I've learned much about the history, the people, and the rich culture.

I've been there close to twenty times. I've experienced some of the traditions, and the deep history of a grand city like Kyiv.

As someone who grew up in the midwest of the United States I was surprised to find how much I shared with the Ukrainians I have met.

If it is cold and snowy in the midwest, it is cold and snowy in Ukraine. You don't need to think about what you pack for a trip, it’s the same as what you would wear in Minnesota.

Most people in the midwest are just a generation or two off the farm. My grandpa was a farmer. Most people in Ukraine are just a generation or two off the farm.

My grandpa farmed wheat. Ukrainians farm wheat.

There are profound differences as well.

I once asked if locals knew that I was an American when I was walking along the sidewalk. I was instantly told "For sure, yes." When inquiring why I was immediately told "Because you are smiling!"

When you visit Kyiv there is a lot of Ukrainian pride. The blue and yellow colors are frequently used on buildings, signage, clothing. The Ukrainian Trident makes regular appearances.

The Ukrainians I've met have always struck me as proud, but not prideful. As restrained, but generous with all. Direct, but in a caring way.

Russia's decision to invade, and cause so much pain to so many people saddens me greatly.

The news has been filled with images of Ukraine in war, of Russian tanks and helicopters, of battle and artillery. I wanted to share my own images from Ukraine. Images of the beautiful places, the cathedrals, the city, and the people.

Now, the Journal section.

Wednesday @ 11:09 PM

Russia Attacking Ukraine tonight deeply saddens me. I have a wonderfully talented technology team of 100 people in Kyiv and we are trying to keep everyone safe.

Tuesday @ 8:17 PM

Dogsledding with Wintergreen

It was two thousand nine when I first went dogsledding at Wintergreen! That trip was just me, and it was Layne Kennedy's photography workshop. It was an amazing 3-days of dogsledding and I got three awesome friends out of it as well!

So it was great to come back 13 years later, this time with the whole family, and have a fun half-day dogsledding trip with Wintergreen Dogsled Lodge outside of Ely.

The dogs were just as I remembered them — so excited to pull and really loud when they had to be stopped. The dogs seemed friendlier than I remembered from the first time. We got a plenty cold day with temperatures around -4 F°. Everyone had a good time on the snow!

Monday @ 8:07 PM

Frozen head shots at the end of todays dogsledding adventure!

Monday @ 8:03 PM

Two minutes on the dogsled trails out with Wintergreen Dogsled Lodge today. We had to stop and start the sled so you hear the “woah” and “hike” commands. Willow and Acorn are the two lead dogs. Tammy and Mazie are in the sled in front of me, and Tyler was on their sled.

Monday @ 8:00 PM

A quite minute on the dogsled trails out with Wintergreen Dogsled Lodge today.

Sunday @ 5:25 PM

Snowmobiling Around Tower

We had a fabulous day on the trails with snowmobiles! We got to Lake Vermillion Houseboats right at 9a to get our snowmobiles and helmets. We were on the trail in no time. We hadn't had breakfast so we stopped in Tower after a short ride across Pike Bay at Good Ol' Days Cafe for a "greasy spoon" breakfast. It also served as a quick gear test and we realized the folks were going to need some help with warm hands. We picked up a bunch of hand warmers at the gas station and then we hit the trail for pretty good loop.

I’m not sure on the total distance but we were out on the trail for a bit over 3 hours after breakfast. The hand warmers were a big help and we had a great time. I thought the distance was just right but mostly everyone else thought we could have ended an hour earlier. I also wasn't that cold when we got done and everyone else felt pretty cold.

Saturday @ 9:50 PM

Downtown Ely. Nice to see the theatre open again!

Saturday @ 9:46 PM

Snow sculptures in Whiteside Park in Ely, MN.

Saturday @ 9:43 PM

Highway MN 169 heading into Ely.

Saturday @ 7:35 AM

Given the state of US politics, wouldn’t now be an ideal time for the creation and launch of a new political party? The two “products” on offer seem to leave a wide space for a new entrant into the market.

Friday @ 10:39 PM

Tina Schlieske at The Dakota

Tammy and I saw Tina Schlieske doing her Sinatra to Simone show at The Dakota and it was incredible. She puts so much passion and energy into it that you cannot help but be moved. She was also joined by her sister Laura who did a number of songs and then they teamed up for several duets. It was a fabulous night of live music. Also our first time back to the Dakota since the pandemic!

That's the end of the Journal.

Now, the Fortune section.

Here is your fortune…

You will receive a legacy which will place you above want.

Thank you for subscribing to the Weekly Thing!

That brings us to the end of the Weekly Thing, issue 213. Thanks for listening, and I'll see you next time.
