The Weekly Thing, issue 214. Support Ukraine. Published March 6, twenty twenty two. By Jamie Thingelstad. In this issue: Sharing fears, news-resilient, crypto exchanges Russia, Ukraine DAO, Credit Suisse leak, haveibeenexpired, Fiona Hill Putin nukes, false images online, NFTs.

This is a different Weekly Thing again. The humanitarian crisis in Ukraine, the result of Russia's War on Ukraine, has been growing worse. There are many, many organizations that are working hard to help people in Ukraine. Please take a moment to make donations if you are able. In the meantime, see the photos from Weekly Thing #213 of Ukraine if you missed them.

Select list of organizations to consider…

- Care.org Ukraine Crisis Fund
- Razom for Ukraine
- International Red Cross
- Direct Relief
- Doctors Without Borders
- Voices of Children
- United Help Ukraine
- USA for UNHCR
- Amnesty International
- UNICEF
- Convoy of Hope
- Samaritan's Purse
- World Central Kitchen providing meals to Ukranian families in need.
- 1 thousand dollars Project: Sponsor a Ukranian family in need.

You can also support the Kyiv Independent with a one-time donation via Go Fund Me or provide ongoing support via Patreon. Having funded and functioning news organizations is incredibly important at all times, and especially now. The Kyiv Independent is the journalist team from the former Kyiv Post, which I used to subscribe to. The owner of the Kyiv Post changed and the whole newsroom left to protest the editorial slant the new owner was pushing. They have resumed as the Kyiv Independent and are doing great reporting.

Some links this week, but not many and just some brief notes…

Now, the Journal section.

Thursday @ 9:22 PM

Tech Inclusion Alliance at MnTech Tech Talent

It was great to get to be part of the MnTech Tech Talent event today with Caroline Karanja as she shared the details of the new Tech Inclusion Alliance, and then a brief panel discussion with Tarek Tomes and myself on what companies are doing that is working to bring more diverse talent into technology.

My key points:

1. Companies need to solve this problem or it will limit their growth, as the available talent pool isn't growing fast enough.
2. Companies can do more to lower the barriers to bringing talent into their organization. Technology choices are hiring choices!

Thursday @ 1:00 PM

Slack's delayed send feature is nice, but I wish there was an option to delay sending to when the person is next online, instead of a specific time.

Tuesday @ 8:06 PM

Tammy creates a family book each year and twenty twenty one is another great keepsake. These books are going to be treasured by the kids, even more in the future than they are now. I cherish each one.

Monday @ 9:14 PM

Imagine Dragons Mercury Tour

We all went to see Imagine Dragons Mercury Tour at the Target Center. Imagine Dragons is Mazie's favorite band, and she is a particularly big fan of Dan Reynolds. We got her tickets for the show and let her pick who she wanted to take. Lucky for us, she picked us! The show was great. They played for over two hours and hit a wide array of songs. It was also the most normal event we've been to since COVID.

Monday @ 8:26 PM

We are ready to head to a Minnesota Aurora FC soccer game!

Sunday @ 11:10 PM

Buildings in downtown Minneapolis lit up in Yellow and Blue for Ukraine.

That's the end of the Journal.

Now, the Briefly section.

Link one. "When we share our fears, we might learn how much we're alike"

Pretty incredible story.

Link two. "The Imperfectionist: Becoming news-resilient"

Limiting our news intake, even during crisis, is worth thinking through. My strategy has been to only consume the email newsletters I get from news organizations. But big events like the Russia's War on Ukraine throw that out the window.

Link three. "Crypto Exchanges Refuse to Freeze All Russian Accounts"

This is a bad call. Most exchanges are doing the right thing here.

Link four. "Ukraine DAO"

I saw this via a tweet from Vitalik Buterin and it was an easy choice to support. I now have my 1,000 LOVE tokens for the DAO.

Link five. "Revealed: Credit Suisse leak unmasks criminals, fraudsters and corrupt politicians"

I thought this only happened in crypto?

Link six. "haveibeenexpired"

Expired SSL certificates are embarrassing.

Link seven. "‘Yes, He Would’: Fiona Hill on Putin and Nukes - POLITICO"

Yikes.

Link eight. "Logger"

Good tool for complex Shortcuts.

Link nine. "Ukraine conflict: Further false images shared online - BBC News"

Don't believe everything you see on the Internet. Shocking that some of this is from a video game.

Link ten. "Three thoughts about NFTs"

Doc Searls has been around tech for a long time, and this is a balanced view.

That's the end of Briefly.

Now, the Fortune section.

Here is your fortune…

Cold hands, no gloves.

Thank you for subscribing to the Weekly Thing!

That brings us to the end of the Weekly Thing, issue 214. Thanks for listening, and I'll see you next time.
