The Weekly Thing, issue 291. Ireland. Published August 4, twenty twenty four. By Jamie Thingelstad. In this issue: McMunn's in Ballybunion, afternoon tea at Adare Manor, Cliffs of Moher, driving in Ireland, Kilmainham Gaol, Inis Mór, Gaelic Games.

Weekly Thing 291 is all about The Emerald Isle with its beautiful landscapes, wonderful people, and joyous spirit. Sent physically from Cannon Lake, MN but metaphysically from Ireland.

Hello there!

I know, I know… it is the middle of the summer and this is when I take a break from sharing these emails. This year an even longer break beginning in June as we were traveling to Ireland.

I wanted to try my hand at a special Weekly Thing. We all enjoyed Ireland, and I thought it would be fun to craft an email just about that. So here we are with a special Weekly Thing just about Ireland. This will have a different vibe from the regular emails.

I also want to wish a warm welcome to a bunch of new folks that just signed up from my appearance on the Omni Show podcast. More on that podcast below! Thank you for welcoming me into your inbox — it is an honor!

One last technical bit to share. Buttondown has added archive searching! If you are curious to search all 290 previous issues of the Weekly Thing you can head to the archive and search away.

Enjoy a bit of Ireland here plus a podcast plug. As a bonus there is a guest column about Ireland! If you want music as you read how about the High Kings singing "Wild Rover". We enjoyed that one several times while there…

I'll be back in September!

Now, the Route and Logs section.

We traveled clockwise starting from Dublin with lodging points in Killarney, Ballybunion, Doolin, Ballyshannon, Belfast, special visit to Tubbrid Castle, and back to Dublin to explore before returning home.

A number of years ago I started keeping logs when we travel. They are great references for us to remember what we were doing when. I read them years later and get to relive part of trips we have taken. The logs for each day…

- Day 1: Depart to Ireland
- Day 2: Land in Ireland and get to Killarney
- Day 3: Killarney National Park
- Day 4: Travel to Ballybunion
- Day 5: Beach time
- Day 6: Adare Manor then Doolin
- Day 7: Inis Mór
- Day 8: Cliffs of Moher
- Day 9: Galway then Bundoran
- Day 10: Sliabh Liag
- Day 11: Donegal
- Day 12: Travel to Belfast
- Day 13: Titanic Museum then Kilkenny
- Day 14: Explore Kilkenny
- Day 15: Travel to Dublin
- Day 16: Guinness and Dublin
- Day 17: Dalkey
- Day 18: Depart Ireland

That's the end of Route and Logs.

Now, the Omni Show 136 section.

Episode 136 of the Omni Show podcast featured me as the guest! I recorded this in May with Andrew Mason and it is great to see it published. The Omni Show is also trying out video and I agreed to give it a try so there is also a video version on YouTube.

This was especially fun for me because I am a regular listener of the Omni Show podcast and have been an avid user of OmniFocus for a very long time. I was excited to get an opportunity to share and go deeper on this topic. I hope you enjoy it too!

Some links to things that I mentioned in the interview:

- MacSparky and the OmniFocus 4 Field Guide
- Meg Edwards of GTD Focus. I specifically highlighted episode 125 of the Omni Show with her.

P.S.: A huge thank you to Pete Edstrom who was on episode 133 for introducing me to Andrew and team!

That's the end of Omni Show 136.

Now, the Ireland Index section.

In the spirit of Harper's Index, for our time in Ireland.

Kilometer driven: 1,907

Damages to car: none

National Parks visited: 1

Bicycles rented: 8
Killarney National Park, Aran Islands

Fish and Chips ordered: 18
Four orders unless otherwise noted:
Kitty O'Se's,
Namir's,
McGanns Pub (1),
Ivy Cottage,
Gus O'Connors (1),
Rusty Mackerel (1),
Titanic Hotel (2),
Finnegans of Dalkey (1).

Blog posts: 110

Pints of Guinness for Jamie: 16
One pint unless otherwise noted:
Hilliards,
O'Connors Traditional Irish Pub,
Kate Kearney's Cottage,
McMunn's of Ballybunion,
McGanns Pub (2),
Joe Watty's Bar and Restaurant (0.5),
Gus O'Connors,
Hot Tub at Cria Lodge,
Rusty Mackerel,
Whoriskey's Pub,
Titanic Hotel (0.5),
The Field Bar,
Norseman Temple Bar,
Guinness Storehouse (2),
O'Donoghues.

Castles stayed in: 1

Airbnbs Stayed: 5 for 12 nights total
Town Centre: Tiġ 13,
Beach: Breakers Beach House,
Cottage: Cottage at Doonagore Castle,
Farm: Cria Lodge,
Castle: Tubbrid Castle

Hotels stayed in: 2
Titanic Hotel,
Hard Rock Dublin.

Islands visited: 2
Inis Mór,
Dalkey Island

Wool sweaters purchased: 7
Tammy: 4, Mazie: 2, Jamie: 1, Tyler: 0

Museums visited: 3
Titanic Museum,
EPIC: The Irish Emigration Museum,
Kilmainham Gaol Museum

Photos taken: 1,648

Boats traveled on: 4
Gap of Dunloe Boat Tour,
Doolin Ferry,
Paddy's Sliabh League Tour,
Ken the Ferry Man

Weight of luggage: 174 lbs

That's the end of Ireland Index.

Now, the Featured section.

Link one. "My Barber sent me to McMunn’s in Ballybunion"

When my barber Gene heard I was going to Ireland he asked "Are you going to be in Ballybunion?" Well we were, so he had a mission for me.

Link two. "Afternoon Tea at Adare Manor"

Adare Manor is an incredibly beautiful destination, and the tea was an experience that we almost decided to cancel. We were so happy that we did not!

Link three. "Hiking the Cliffs of Moher"

The Cliffs of Moher are incredible, and for some of our group even a little incredibly concerning. They are cliffs! Pat Sweeney took us on a great hike that made us all happy to have done it!

Link four. "Driving in Ireland"

Driving on the "wrong" side of the road? Driving on the "wrong" side of the car? With a stick shift? So many warnings to make sure you get the most complete insurance package you can. I think I did pretty good!

Link five. "Kilmainham Gaol Museum"

We don't visit a lot of jails on vacation but this was an amazing tour that showed so much of Irelands history. Much of the tour was about the political prisoners held here. Somber and insightful.

Link six. "Exploring Inis Mór"

We took the ferry to the Island and had a great time biking around and getting some Irish sweaters.

Link seven. "Experience Gaelic Games"

Gaelic games are a an incredible part of Irish culture. We got to try out the games and even got to give Hurling a try.

That's the end of Featured.

Now, the Going Deeper section.

We walked the road up and over the Gap of Dunloe and finished with a delightful Guinness at the pub. Hike the Gap of Dunloe

Ireland has very nice beaches. Ballybunion Beach Day

If I lived in the eighteenth century I would like to be someone that has a hawk. Hawk Walk at Ashford Castle

These cliffs are three times higher than the Cliffs of Moher. Sliabh League Boat Trip and Sliabh League Hike

This was one of the most remote, coolest places that we have ever been anywhere. Dolphins showing up while we were there just made it even better. Silver Strand Beach

Iceland has a ton of columnar geology, but Giants Causeway was a ton of fun to climb around and explore. Giants Causeway

Incredible museum that we could have spent twice as much time at. Titanic Museum

We got to stay in a castle! Tubbrid Castle

Irish have emigrated around the world. It is amazing how far and broad. EPIC: The Irish Emigration Museum

Great experience. Highly commercial, but still a wonderful time. Guinness Storehouse

One of the more unique things on our trip and it was amazing. Windmill Lane Studio Tour

This castle tour was insightful and fun! Actors brought it to life in a way that could have been cheesey but was awesome. Dalkey Castle

Visit a small island with nothing much on it and have a nice afternoon wandering about. Dalkey Island

I could have had even more time here. Music and Pubs

That's the end of Going Deeper.

Now, the Lucky Man section.

Josh Ellis has been writing a column called "Ramblings" for 20 years. I recently helped him get his archive on the web at Rambling Josh. This essay is one he wrote in twenty twenty two about his multiple times to Ireland. If you like this, subscribe to get it via email twice a month. Josh is also my cousin and an awesome guy.

Lying on my back in the thick soft grass on the summit of Mount Brandon, Cnoc Bréanainn in Irish, with my head propped up on my backpack, I watched the clouds and mountain mist drift over, around, and seemingly, through me. Other than the Raven that greeted me upon my arrival, there was somehow not another soul in sight or sound.

While the Dingle Peninsula below teemed with tourists, and the din and clatter of the world, I said to myself, to the mountain, to the sea, to the mist, to this time, and to life in general, "You are a lucky man."

Lucky my legs can carry me to such places. Lucky my senses allow the submersion in, and the recollection of, these moments. Lucky my wife supports and encourages this rambling about in life, whether it be at one another's side, or on one another's mind. Lucky to have days that are my own to engage in life as I wish. Lucky.

Now that I've returned home, the sights, sounds, and experiences I had during my stay in Ireland seem so near, yet so far. So it goes. Home. After two-weeks of walking by day, and pints of Guinness and music by night, I was ready to come home. Home to my wife, to our house, to South Dakota, to the U.S. of A.

Some travelers come home from visits to other countries with thoughts of moving to those countries. Some come home with thoughts of how good we have it in this country. My thoughts are of the latter, rather than the former. We've got issues, every country does, but America is a pretty good place to call home.

For the first week of the trip I traveled solo, then my good friend Paul joined me for the second week. Why Ireland? Why that particular country three times in the past 12-years? It's a big world with so much to see, but it's the music that brought Paul and myself back.

The music that young and old know, share, and have an authentic enduring love for. The music that pub owners allow to continue deep into the night, long after they've locked the doors and pulled the shades.

There were a few nights Paul and I were lucky enough to find ourselves on the right side of those locked doors and drawn shades. Lucky enough to hear songs we fell in love with 20-years ago, sung by those that have known them a lifetime.

On these nights, if a lull in song occurred, I would sometimes ask someone, "What is your favorite song?" Or, "What song comes out of you most often?" Essentially, I was curious as to what song spills out unconsciously when it needs to, when they needed it to? As the Irish poet, Brendan Kennelly, wrote, "All songs are living ghosts. And long for a living voice."

The response to these questions were never met with the mere title of a song, they were met with the song itself. Sometimes sung to all that had found themselves on the right side of the locked door and drawn shades, sometimes just to me, for me. A gift. Sometimes an Irish song, but just as often not.

A kindly gentleman in his 80s responded to my question by leaning towards me, closing his eyes, and softly singing just under the crowd, "Rows and flows of angel hair and ice cream castles in the air…" the song "Both Sides Now", from Canada's own, Joni Mitchell. Sung beautifully, straight from the heart. I can still hear him, and with any luck, I always will.

From the solitude atop Mount Brandon, chilled to the bone in the mountain mist, to a lively pub, warmed to the soul with song. A lucky man indeed.

I enjoyed a daily dose of Vitamin G while we were in Ireland. I managed to have a Guinness every day.

That's the end of Lucky Man.

Now, the Haiku section.

How about a haiku about Ireland…

Emerald hills rise,
Guinness flows, dark and hearty —
Nature’s green embrace.

Thank you for subscribing to the Weekly Thing!

That's the end of Haiku.

Now, the Want to support the Weekly Thing? section.

First — thank you for subscribing and reading. Here are some things you can do that would be great…

- Share Weekly Thing 291 / Ireland with others you know!
- Post about the Weekly Thing and let others know about it.
- Join the Weekly Thing Forum and connect with others.
- Email me comments, feedback, or just to say Hi!

That brings us to the end of the Weekly Thing, issue 291. Thanks for listening, and I'll see you next time.
