The Weekly Thing, issue 52. May 5, twenty eighteen. Published May 5, twenty eighteen. By Jamie Thingelstad. In this issue: WeWork's growing empire, GitHub Pages HTTPS, Prime Book Box, synthetic nucleotides, code review culture, passwords online.

This issue marks the first year of the Weekly Thing! I am enjoying this project, and I've heard from many of you who subscribe that you have found it valuable too!

I published the first Weekly Thing on May 13, twenty seventeen. That first one went to a dozen or so friends that I invited to join this experiment with me. Looking at that first one is a reminder of how much the structure has evolved. At the one year mark there are over 500 people who have signed up to get the Weekly Thing!

Thank you for subscribing and let's get on to the second year of Weekly Things! As always, if you know others that you think would enjoy the Weekly Thing send them to to sign up!

Now, the Featured Links section.

Don't miss these gems from the past week.

The Numbers Behind WeWork's Growing Empire - Bloomberg
www.bloomberg.com

This doesn't read like a healthy company. CEO Adam Neumann has 65% of the voting shares, and in the last two years has paid 9.8 million dollars in leases to properties owned by officers and affiliates of the company, with 90 million dollars in future lease payments. Meanwhile the companies costs are rising faster than revenue. 220,000 members with 251,000 desks? I would think they would have more subscribers than desks.

Inside Nintendo's secretive creative process | Games | The Guardian
www.theguardian.com

The headline is a bit overstated, but this is a little peak into how Nintendo approaches creating new game experiences.

“We have the software team and the hardware team working very closely together,” elaborates Takahashi.

I think you could write a near clone of this article for Apple. I love the hiring emphasis to focus on people that have put continued diligence on a project over years, independent of the outcome.

Stack Overflow Isn't Very Welcoming. It's Time for That to Change. - Stack Overflow Blog
stackoverflow.blog

Even in my casual use of Stack Overflow I have come across some of the abrasive culture items noted in this post from their EVP of Culture and Experience, Jay Hanlon. This is a good statement of the problem and where they are starting. The whole time I read it I kept thinking how incredibly hard it is to build community on the Internet. Your average community in the real world seems to trend to nice, but online seems to trend the other way.

That's the end of Featured Links.

Now, the Photo section.

My favorite picture from the last week.

We typically visit Gooseberry Falls in the summer. This is our first time in the Spring when the snow melt is strong and the water is rushing down the falls. It was impressive to see the falls at it's strongest. It is also amazing that this shot is with my iPhone, not a fancy rig on a tripod with an extended exposure.

May 3, twenty eighteen at 12:17 PM
Gooseberry Falls, Two Harbors, MN

That's the end of Photo.

Now, the Links section.

Commentary on interesting links from the week.

GitHub's refurbished San Francisco headquarters is designed for inclusivity — Quartz at Work
work.qz.com

The pictures of this space look amazing. I love the light walls. This is the first I have heard of a company considering their diversity objectives in space layout, and it makes a lot of sense.

When Your Employees Post Passwords Online — Krebs on Security
krebsonsecurity.com

Services that offer both private and public functions can easily leak private information out.

KrebsOnSecurity spent the past week using Google to discover unprotected personal Trello boards that listed employer passwords and other sensitive data.

The Uber example is not rare. A solution to this is to write small jobs to insure compliance with your security and governance processes.

Lessons from Building Static Analysis Tools at Google | April twenty eighteen | Communications of the ACM
cacm.acm.org

The Lessons and Conclusions section of this are most interesting. The rest is worth scanning for interesting sections. The lessons are applicable to any type of process that you want to add to a coding workflow.

Amazon launches kid-focused Prime Book Box subscription
www.imore.com

New subscription service from Amazon.

After signing up for the service, you'll create a profile for your child to ensure they get the books best suited for them. Books you're offered are based on your kid's age, and all of the titles are handpicked by Amazon Books editors.

Once Amazon knows your kids and their ages (plus whatever other data) they can also market you with all sorts of other parent purchases.

Custom domains on GitHub Pages gain support for HTTPS
blog.github.com

This is a great add to GitHub Pages! There are so many sites running on this and they can now be made secure. I just wish they defaulted it to on!

Anatomy of a Program in Memory | Many But Finite
manybutfinite.com

These days we tend to spend most of our computer time far away from the hardware. I find it fun to dive into the occasional article that goes into detail on how the computer in your lap or in your hand works at a very low level.

WhatsApp founder plans to leave after broad clashes with parent Facebook - The Washington Post
www.washingtonpost.com

I don't think there is going to be a line of people forming to feel bad for Koum and his 19 billion dollars that he got from selling. It is incredibly naïve if they felt that selling to Facebook was going to continue the strong privacy and encryption stance that WhatsApp historically had.

Bezos: A CEO Who Can Write – Monday Note
mondaynote.com

Jean-Louis Gassée (one of the former Apple CEOs) giving a recap of the 21 years of Jeff Bezos shareholder letters.

Unlearning toxic behaviors in a code review culture
medium.freecodecamp.org

Nicely put together list of Do's and Don'ts for conducting code reviews in a way that helps and improves your culture. This is a topic more should be written about. Reviewing someone else's work without regard has a lot of downside potential.

Incident Management at Netflix Velocity (video)
www.infoq.com

I like the stated goals of incident management: Short, Unique, and Never Forget. I've seen many incident management processes and I don't know that many of them state their goals up front. They are often assumed. They also enumerate the strategies for those goals: Engagement, Communication, Coordination, and Memorialization. I like the clarity of goal versus strategy. Often times communication is stated as a goal, not a strategy, of incident management.

CRISPR-Cas9 Improved 10,000-Fold by Synthetic Nucleotides | GEN
www.genengnews.com

After reading A Crack in Creation I continue to find updates on CRISPR interesting to follow. CRISPR seems like an incredible technology.

The Best VPN Service: Reviews by Wirecutter | A New York Times Company
thewirecutter.com

VPN services used to be the domain business alone but with more focus on privacy, less trust of the providers that bring us our connectivity, and more security issues I know a lot of people are buying their own VPN services. This is the most comprehensive and researched view of VPN services I've seen to date. I personally use Encrypt.me which is bundled in with Eero Plus, but I have had a number of issues with it.

Humans broke the internet, understanding them better might help fix it — SAGE Ocean | Big Data, New Tech, Social Science
ocean.sagepub.com

Pretty accurate description of some of the promises of the Internet and the reality.

This great leveler of opportunity has resulted in some of the most overweening monopolies the world has ever seen. This medium of unfettered self-expression has delivered oppressive surveillance and invasions of privacy of a kind that were previously the sole preserve of police states. This enabler of a better informed, more engaged citizenry has instead come to be seen as subverting democracy itself.

This article advocates to being more social science to the technology of the internet. It certainly can’t help, but it’s hard to see how that is going to address the advertising biased attention economy.

Event Sourcing made Simple – Kickstarter Engineering
kickstarter.engineering

This is one of the most approachable descriptions of Event Sourcing and the key concepts behind it I have ever read. The animated diagrams help as well. Kickstarter’s specific implementation is very Rails and ActiveRecord heavy, but shows a lightweight application of the concepts.

That's the end of Links.

Now, the Promotion section.

Let's Encrypt is a free, automated, and open certificate authority, run for the public’s benefit. All connections to web servers should be encrypted! The biggest challenge with encrypting the web historically has been the cost and hassle of getting an SSL certificate. Let's Encrypt has changed that entirely by being a free certificate authority. Let's Encrypt is possibly one of the most important things to happen on the web in recent years. Donate to Let's Encrypt today!

That's the end of Promotion.

Now, the App section.

Drafts 5: Capture ‣‣ Act

by Agile Tortoise

Drafts, where text starts. Quickly capture text and send it almost anywhere! Drafts lets you turn text into action – it’s a quick notebook, handy editor, and writing automation tool, all in one. Instead of tapping around other apps, capture in Drafts first. Open it and write right away, then do something useful with your words.

In the Weekly Thing from July 22, twenty seventeen I highlighted Drafts 4. Recently Drafts 5 was released with significant new capability. Drafts is one of those iOS applications that you start not knowing what to do with it, and then it becomes a key application that you do a ton of different things with it. I personally love it's dictation capabilities on both my iPhone and my Apple Watch.

Free
4/5 stars

That's the end of App.

Now, the Breadcrumbs section.

Additional links of interest from this week.
- xkcd: IMHO (xkcd.com)
Awesome.
- 0.38 Second Rubik’s Cube Solve (youtu.be)
Amazing!
- Google Cloud Platform Blog: Kubernetes best practices: Setting up health checks with readiness and liveness probes (cloudplatform.googleblog.com)
- Announcing Stack Overflow for Teams – Joel on Software (www.joelonsoftware.com)
This makes sense.
- Nest Cam versus WyzeCam: Clash of the connected cameras — iMore (www.imore.com)
I’m amazed at how good the WyzeCam did at a fraction of the cost!
- GraphQL College - Practice GraphQL (www.graphql.college)
- Google Cloud Platform Blog: Announcing Stackdriver Kubernetes Monitoring: Comprehensive Kubernetes observability from the start (cloudplatform.googleblog.com)
- Leveraging Log Streaming to Build the Best Dashboards, Ever (tech.target.com)
Nice post by Target outlining how they leverage streaming log activity. Includes samples.
- Elo Rating System Implemented in Single SQL SELECT | Elliot Chance (elliot.land)
People do wild stuff with SQL.
- How to use macOS High Sierra to take screenshots and grab video from your Apple TV — Apple World Today (www.appleworld.today)
Had no idea you could do this. Neat.
- Introducing the Kubernetes Podcast from Google — Google Cloud Platform (cloudplatform.googleblog.com)
New podcast.
- Home | Automation Orchard (automationorchard.com)
Comprehensive resource for automation tools.
- xkcd: Python Environment (xkcd.com)
So true.
- Fortnite: Everything you need to know! | iMore (imore.com)
Fortnite isn't my kind of game, but it’s coming to IOS and if you are curious what all the excitement is about this gives a little primer.
- Nina Makes | Builds | NeXT Computer Replica - Raspberry Pi Case (www.ninamakes.co.uk)
This is so great!
- Rough.js - Create graphics with a hand-drawn, sketchy, appearance (roughjs.com)
- Amazon to hire additional 200 people for Mpls. tech office - StarTribune.com (www.startribune.com)
- Unsubscribe Robot (unsubscriberobot.com)
- The Appeal of Simplicity (ac1235.github.io)

That's the end of Breadcrumbs.

Now, the Status section.

twenty eighteen-05-04 4:47 PM

Afternoon beverage at Castle Danger Brewery.

twenty eighteen-05-04 4:01 PM

Family photo on shore of Lake Superior. Outside of Two Harbors.

twenty eighteen-05-04 3:24 PM

Left a cairn.

twenty eighteen-05-04 2:12 PM

Two Harbors, MN.

twenty eighteen-05-04 1:27 PM

It seems bananas that there is a Banana Saver product one can buy.

twenty eighteen-05-03 10:55 PM

It’s possible to make some pretty crazy stuff with Workflow and Pythonista on iOS. Improving my Weekly Thing automation.

twenty eighteen-05-03 8:39 PM

Gooseberry Falls was amazing today.

twenty eighteen-05-03 8:33 PM

Why does Microsoft OneDrive for iOS still not support the Files app. It should have been one of the first to adopt it.

twenty eighteen-05-03 8:03 PM

When Twitter updates Terms of Service I get notices for multiple accounts that I deactivated/deleted a long time ago. Do others get this? Shouldn’t the accounts be deleted and no notice given?

twenty eighteen-05-03 3:36 PM

North Shore requires a stop at Betty’s Pies. I’m a pie traditionalist. Blueberry, cup of coffee.

twenty eighteen-05-03 1:42 PM

Lake Superior.

twenty eighteen-05-03 1:12 PM

Snow hanging on up north.

twenty eighteen-05-03 12:41 PM

Gooseberry Falls is roaring with spring melt.

twenty eighteen-05-02 8:36 PM

Home Free stage photo.

twenty eighteen-05-02 8:30 PM

Excited to see OmniFocus 3.0 for iOS ship date announced! Wonder why it’s not in App Store for pre-order. Instant buy for me.

twenty eighteen-05-02 7:50 PM

Whole family at Home Free concert in Duluth. (One of Mazie’s favorite bands!)

twenty eighteen-05-02 6:30 PM

Trying out OMC Smokehouse in Duluth, and of course a Bent Paddle Kanū.

twenty eighteen-05-01 8:48 PM

Going to learn some Cyrillic for my next trip to Kiev.

twenty eighteen-04-30 7:34 PM

Gorgeous evening to sit outside and relax.

twenty eighteen-04-28 9:05 PM

Cue Wonderwall! Nice win Minnesota United! #MNUFC 2-1

twenty eighteen-04-28 8:40 PM

This review could have gotten really ugly. Luckily went the right way.

twenty eighteen-04-28 8:37 PM

GOAL!!!!!!!! #MNUFC 2-1

twenty eighteen-04-28 8:33 PM

BOBBY!!! BOBBY!!! BOBBY!!! Nice save!

twenty eighteen-04-28 8:00 PM

Halftime family selfie at Minnesota United #MNUFC v Houston Dynamo. 1-1

twenty eighteen-04-28 7:18 PM

MN United! Completely outplayed on that drive. Down a goal.

That brings us to the end of the Weekly Thing, issue 52. Thanks for listening, and I'll see you next time.
